Relevant Provision
(b)(1)(B)  No funds shall be made available under any applicable program to any educational agency or institution which has a policy or practice of permitting the release of education records (or personally identifiable information contained therein other than directory information, as defined in paragraph (5) of subsection (a)) of students without the written consent of their parents to any individual, agency, or organization, other than to the following— officials of other schools or school systems in which the student seeks or intends to enroll, upon condition that the student’s parents be notified of the transfer, receive a copy of the record if desired, and have an opportunity for a hearing to challenge the content of the record;
Query
I am the registrar of a K–8 public school. We just received a request from a high school in a neighboring district asking us to forward the complete education records of a student who recently enrolled with them. They want the records as soon as possible. May we send the records under FERPA?
Expected follow-up question:
Have the parents been notified that the records are being transferred to the receiving school, and have they been offered the opportunity to receive a copy of the records and to challenge their content through a hearing?
Query Continuation
No, we have not notified the parents. The receiving high school says it needs the records urgently in order to place the student in appropriate courses, and we were planning to send them immediately.
Expected Final Answer
FERPA permits you to disclose the records to the receiving school without written parental consent, because (b)(1)(B) authorizes disclosure to officials of other schools in which the student seeks or intends to enroll. However, this exception is conditional, and your current plan does not satisfy the conditions. Before (or contemporaneously with) the transfer, you must notify the parents that the records are being sent to the receiving school, give them the opportunity to receive a copy of the records if they wish, and give them an opportunity for a hearing to challenge the content of the records. The urgency described by the receiving school does not eliminate these procedural requirements. 
