Relevant provision (emphasis added):
(b)(1)(F): [(1)No funds shall be made available under any applicable program to any educational agency or institution which has a policy or practice of permitting the release of education records (or personally identifiable information contained therein other than directory information, as defined in paragraph (5) of subsection (a)) of students without the written consent of their parents to any individual, agency, or organization, other than to the following—] organizations conducting studies for, or on behalf of, educational agencies or institutions for the purpose of developing, validating, or administering predictive tests, administering student aid programs, and improving instruction, if such studies are conducted in such a manner as will not permit the personal identification of students and their parents by persons other than representatives of such organizations and such information will be destroyed when no longer needed for the purpose for which it is conducted;
(b)(2)(A): [No funds shall be made available under any applicable program to any educational agency or institution which has a policy or practice of releasing, or providing access to, any personally identifiable information in education records other than directory information, or as is permitted under paragraph (1) of this subsection, unless—] there is written consent from the student’s parents specifying records to be released, the reasons for such release, and to whom, and with a copy of the records to be released to the student’s parents and the student if desired by the parents, or
(b)(4)(B): With respect to this subsection, personal information shall only be transferred to a third party on the condition that such party will not permit any other party to have access to such information without the written consent of the parents of the student. If a third party outside the educational agency or institution permits access to information in violation of paragraph (2)(A), or fails to destroy information in violation of paragraph (1)(F), the educational agency or institution shall be prohibited from permitting access to information from education records to that third party for a period of not less than five years.
User Query:
I am the superintendent of a rural school district. Two years ago, we shared student records with a nonprofit organization that was conducting a study to improve our reading curriculum. We just learned that the nonprofit gave a copy of the data to a technology company that wanted to develop an adaptive learning product. What are our obligations under FERPA?
Expected follow-up question:
Did the parents of the students provide written consent for the nonprofit to share the records with the technology company?
Query continuation:
User answer to follow-up q: No. We consented to share the data with the nonprofit for the study, but no parents consented to any further sharing.
Expected response:
Final output: Because the nonprofit permitted access to student information by another party without written parental consent, your district is required to bar that nonprofit from accessing any education records for a period of not less than five years. Moreover, the original sharing with the nonprofit was permitted only because the study was conducted for the purpose of improving instruction, and one of the conditions of that exception is that personally identifiable information must be destroyed when no longer needed. So you should verify that the data was actually destroyed. If not, that’s a second violation that would independently trigger the five-year rule. 

