Query:

"I'm a dean of admissions at a private university. A current student has asked under FERPA to inspect the confidential letters of recommendation that were submitted in support of his application for admission three years ago. He signed a waiver at the time he applied, waiving his right of access to those letters. Are we required to provide him access?"

Statutory provision

20 U.S.C. § 1232g(a)(1)(C) The first sentence of subparagraph (A) shall not operate to make available to students in institutions of postsecondary education the following materials: … (iii) if the student has signed a waiver of the student's right of access under this subsection in accordance with subparagraph (D), confidential recommendations — (I) respecting admission to any educational agency or institution, …

20 U.S.C. § 1232g(a)(1)(D) A student or a person applying for admission may waive his right of access to confidential statements described in clause (iii) of subparagraph (C), except that such waiver shall apply to recommendations only if (i) the student is, upon request, notified of the names of all persons making confidential recommendations and (ii) such recommendations are used solely for the purpose for which they were specifically intended. Such waivers may not be required as a condition for admission to, receipt of financial aid from, or receipt of any other services or benefits from such agency or institution.

Expected follow-up question:

Was the student's waiver effective under both conditions of §1232g(a)(1)(D) — specifically, (i) is the student, upon request, notified of the names of all persons making the confidential recommendations, and (ii) have the recommendations been used solely for their intended admissions purpose?

An (a)(1)(C)(iii) waiver applies to recommendations only if both (D) conditions hold. The student must be notified, on request, of the names of recommenders, and the recommendations must have been used only for the purpose for which they were specifically intended (admissions). If either condition fails, the waiver does not bar the student from accessing the recommendations.

Query Continuation

"The waiver was signed at the time of application. The student has not previously asked for the names of the recommenders, and the institution has the names available on request. The recommendations were used only in connection with the admissions decision and have not been consulted or shared for any other purpose since."

Expected Final Answer

The institution is not required to provide the student access to the confidential recommendations under FERPA. The student's waiver under §1232g(a)(1)(D) operates to bar his right of access to the confidential admissions recommendations described in (a)(1)(C)(iii), and both conditions of (D) appear satisfied: the institution will, upon request, notify the student of the names of the persons who provided the recommendations (you should provide that list now if he asks), and the recommendations have been used solely for the admissions purpose for which they were intended.

If either condition were violated — for example, if the institution had used the recommendation for some unrelated purpose, or if it refused to identify the recommenders on request — the waiver would not apply and the student would have the right of access. The institution should confirm both conditions are still satisfied before declining the request.

---

---
