Relevant Provision
(b)(1)(L)  No funds shall be made available ... other than to the following — an agency caseworker or other representative of a State or local child welfare agency, or tribal organization (as defined in section 5304 of title 25), who has the right to access a student’s case plan, as defined and determined by the State or tribal organization, when such agency or organization is legally responsible, in accordance with State or tribal law, for the care and protection of the student, provided that the education records, or the personally identifiable information contained in such records, of the student will not be disclosed by such agency or organization, except to an individual or entity engaged in addressing the student’s education needs and authorized by such agency or organization to receive such disclosure and such disclosure is consistent with the State or tribal laws applicable to protecting the confidentiality of a student’s education records.
Query
I am the principal of an elementary school. A caseworker from the county child welfare agency has come to my office asking to see a student’s complete education records, including grades, attendance, IEP, and disciplinary file. The caseworker says the student is in foster care and that the agency needs the records to plan for the child’s educational placement. We do not have parental consent. Are we permitted to disclose the records under FERPA?
Expected follow-up question:
Is the county child welfare agency legally responsible under state law for the care and protection of this student, and does the caseworker have the right under state law to access the student’s case plan?
Query Continuation
Yes. The student has been placed in the legal custody of the county child welfare agency by court order, and under our state’s child welfare statute the assigned caseworker is authorized to access the student’s case plan, which includes educational information.
Expected Final Answer
Yes, FERPA permits disclosure to the caseworker without parental consent. Section (b)(1)(L) authorizes disclosure to a caseworker or representative of a state or local child welfare agency that is legally responsible for the student’s care and protection, where the caseworker has the right under state law to access the student’s case plan. Both conditions are satisfied here.
There are two caveats the school should communicate to the caseworker in writing at the time of the disclosure. First, the agency may not redisclose the records, or the personally identifiable information they contain, except to an individual or entity that is engaged in addressing the student’s education needs and that the agency has authorized to receive the disclosure. Second, any redisclosure must also be consistent with the state’s confidentiality laws governing student education records.
