Relevant provision (emphasis added):
(b)(1)(F): [(1)No funds shall be made available under any applicable program to any educational agency or institution which has a policy or practice of permitting the release of education records (or personally identifiable information contained therein other than directory information, as defined in paragraph (5) of subsection (a)) of students without the written consent of their parents to any individual, agency, or organization, other than to the following—] organizations conducting studies for, or on behalf of, educational agencies or institutions for the purpose of developing, validating, or administering predictive tests, administering student aid programs, and improving instruction, if such studies are conducted in such a manner as will not permit the personal identification of students and their parents by persons other than representatives of such organizations and such information will be destroyed when no longer needed for the purpose for which it is conducted;
(b)(2)(A): [No funds shall be made available under any applicable program to any educational agency or institution which has a policy or practice of releasing, or providing access to, any personally identifiable information in education records other than directory information, or as is permitted under paragraph (1) of this subsection, unless—] there is written consent from the student’s parents specifying records to be released, the reasons for such release, and to whom, and with a copy of the records to be released to the student’s parents and the student if desired by the parents, or
(b)(4)(B): With respect to this subsection, personal information shall only be transferred to a third party on the condition that such party will not permit any other party to have access to such information without the written consent of the parents of the student. If a third party outside the educational agency or institution permits access to information in violation of paragraph (2)(A), or fails to destroy information in violation of paragraph (1)(F), the educational agency or institution shall be prohibited from permitting access to information from education records to that third party for a period of not less than five years.
User Query:
I am an administrator in a large suburban school district. A university research lab has approached us wanting access to student-level data to study how socioeconomic factors correlate with academic outcomes. They say the results will be published in a peer-reviewed journal. Can we share the records without parental consent under FERPA?
Expected follow-up question:
Is the study being conducted for the purpose of developing, validating, or administering predictive tests, administering student aid programs, or improving instruction?
Query continuation:
User answer to follow-up q: The lab says the study is aimed at improving instructional practices in low-income schools.
Expected response:
Final output: If the study is genuinely conducted for the purpose of improving instruction on behalf of your school district, FERPA does permit the release of student records without parental consent to the research organization. However, the study must be conducted in a manner that does not permit the personal identification of students and their parents by anyone other than the firm’s own representatives. Second, the lab must destroy all student information once it is no longer needed for the study. Moreover, your district bears ongoing risk: under (b)(4)(B), the lab may not allow any other party to access the data without written parental consent specifying records to be released, the reasons for such release, and to whom. Parents must also be allowed to access a copy of the records that are released to the third party. Finally, the third party is under the same obligation to destroy student information once no longer needed for the study. If the third party fails to comply, your district must bar the university from accessing education records for a period of not less than five years.
